# Critical Questions for Big Data

 I think that Bowker says “Raw data is both an oxymoron and a bad idea” because it is impossible   to have truly Raw data, all data needs to come with some sort of information correlated to it and without that it cannot be analyzed and thus has no meaning — making it a bad idea. Unapplied and unanalyzed data is essentially useless… it’s just a big group of numbers. The definition of raw (from google) is “not cooked,” while the definition of “facts and statistics collected together for reference or analysis.” These two terms completely contradict each other as Raw implies that the data is unprepared to be analyzed while Data implies that the numbers which make up the data set are for the purpose of analysis.

 I think that "'accounting tools [...] do not simply aid the measurement of economic activity, they shape the reality they measure'" because once a trend is discovered and acted upon, those actions will in turn change the trend that was previously noticed making it a never-ending cycle. This was visible in the Crime Machine episode when the crime rate began to artificially drop. The machine, which originally was meant to measure, predict and help reduce crime, only managed to really lower the reported crime rate and cause people to be arrested for unfair and arbitrary charges.	 

 Twitter data is limited because the population of Twitter users is not necessarily indicative of the general population. Some people might have multiple accounts, some people might be bots, some people might be masking their own demographics, etc. Also, only 60% of Twitter users actually tweet. Also, most researchers do not have access to all of the Tweets that big businesses do because they do not have the financial resources that big companies do.

 I believe that if you don’t need to login or have special permission to view data it is fair game for analysis. Although I believe that this information should be considered up for analysis, I will admit that after I finished this reading I did change my privacy on my social media accounts. I think that because users have the option to opt into privacy by not making their posts public it is totally ethical to use public posts for Big Data analysis. Although the data can be easily skewed, it can be a valuable resource because it is the most personal set of Data one can mine.
